Machine Learning Based (MLB) Symbolic Execution
--------



This repository presents a new symbolic execution tool based on machine learning and the experiment data collected during the evaluation of the tool. 



Overview
--------
During program traversing, symbolic execution collects path conditions and feeds them to a constraint solver to obtain feasible solutions. However, complex path conditions, like nonlinear constraints, which widely appear in programs, are hard to be handled efficiently by the existing solvers.

In this repository, we adapt the classical symbolic execution framework with a theoretically grounded optimization technique based on machine learning. Our framework, MLB, encodes not only the simple linear path conditions, but also nonlinear arithmetic operations, and even black-box function calls of library methods, into symbolic path conditions. The feasibility problems of the path conditions are then transformed into optimization problems, which are handled by the underlying optimization solver through machine learning guided sampling and validation in the path conditions.

We implement MLB on the basis of Symbolic Path Finder (SPF) into a fully automatic Java symbolic execution engine. Users can feed their code to MLB directly, which is very convenient to use. To evaluate its performance, 16 real case programs are used as the benchmarks for MLB to generate test cases, which involve a total number of 290 methods that are full of nonlinear operations, float point arithmetic and even native method calls. Experiment results show that the coverage achieved by MLB is 1.6 to 3.6 times of the state-of-the-art tools with much better efficiency.


Directory Structure
--------
- The ```  Data/ ``` directory contains the test cases generated by respective tools and the coverage reports generated by Jacoco.
- The ```  Tool/``` directory contains the executable program MLB, the target programs and the evaluation scripts.


Usage
--------
Running MLB requires an environment with a Java Development Kit (JDK) supporting (1.8 recommended) and *bash, ant* for the evaluation scripts.

- #### Set Up

	Tell JPF where MLB is located by creating the ```~/.jpf/site.properties``` file with the following lines:
	```
	jpf.home  = ${user.home}/PROJECT_DIR/Tool/MLB
	jpf-core  = ${jpf.home}/jpf-core
	extensions= ${jpf-core}

	jpf-symbc = ${jpf.home}/jpf-symbc
	extensions= ${jpf-symbc}

	jpf-nhandler = ${jpf.home}/jpf-nhandler
	extensions= ${jpf-nhandler}
  ```
 	Note : PROJECT_DIR should be replaced by the actual path to the root of this repository.
    
- #### Generate Test Cases for  Programs
	For using SPF on a target program, a ```*.jpf``` configuration file needs to be given and the relevant information  can be found in SPF documentation. 
    
    MLB provides the  configuration parameters as follows:
    - ```symbolic.mlpm = POSITIVE_INT (default:3000)```  The sample size as the budget of the generation. Note that the running time is almost linear to the sample size which means  a larger sample size may lead to a smaller estimated false negative rate but  more time than the smaller ones .
    - ```symbolic.complex = 0 / 1 / 2 (default:2)```  The difficulty level of the problem under rough investigation. There are three preset levels: easy(0), where the function value changes slowly, e.g., x +1 = 0; modest(1), where the function value changes fast, e.g., sin(2|x|) = 0; and hard(2), where the function changes very fast, e.g., |e^x+3*e^3| = 0. 

    - ```symbolic.strategy = classical / conservative (default:classical)``` The search strategy of symbolic execution. MLB backtracks when the path condition is infeasible or unsolved under the classical search strategy, while it continues to traverse deeper along the  path condition under the conservative search strategy which possiblely leads to more time but higher coverages on the benchmarks .

	In the ```Tool/MLB/Test/experiment``` directory, running the ```generate-test-cases.sh``` script  can  automatically generate test cases and coverage reports for programs in ```src/programs``` with  corresponding configuration files  set in ```src/drivers```.
    
  
- #### Reproduce The Experiments
	Different experiment scripts in the ```Tool/MLB/Test/experiment``` directory  will help to reproduce the experiment data in the  evaluation.
 	- The ```run-experiments-ex.sh``` script runs the experiment to evaluate the performance of MLB for 16 real programs with a total number of 290 methods in ```src/ex-programs```   
 	-  The ```run-experiments-samples.sh``` script  runs the experiment to evaluate what influence the sample size parameter has on the performance of MLB.
 	-  The ```run-experiments-conservative.sh``` script and  the ```run-experiment-classical.sh``` script run the experiments to evaluate the influence of different search strategies in symbolic execution on the performance.
 	-   The ```run-experiments-black-box.sh``` script and  the ```run-experiments-white-box.sh``` script run the experiments to evaluate the performance of MLB for programs containing library method calls.

 





